README.md, before:


<p align="center">
  <img src="badges/coverage.svg">
</p>

# Check AWS Inspector V1.0 #

This action can be used to check the findings of an [amazon inspector](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/inspector/latest/user/what-is-inspector.html) scan. It has only been tested with inspector v2. Currently the action also only supports checking the results of scans on images pushed to ecr. May be modified for lambdas and ec2 instances in the future.

### Usage ###
```yml
- uses: ecperth/check-aws-inspector@v1.0
    with:
      # ecr repository name
      repository: 
      # image tag
      tag: 
      # vulnerability severity to cause action to fail (Optional)
      # if provided the action will fail if a vulnerability of that severity or higher is 
      # found. [ CRITICAL | HIGH | MEDIUM | LOW | INFORMATIONAL| UNDEFINED ]
      fail-on: 
      # vulnerabilityIds to ignore (Optional)
      # seperated by spaces, commas or newlines
      ignore:
      # time (seconds) to get complete status from ecr before action fails
      timeout: 
      # time (seconds) between polls for consistency
      # i suggest reading the explanation below and experimenting for yourself
      # as aws inspector behaviour may change making this unnecessary
      consistency-delay: 
```
### Output ###
There is just one output **findingSeverityCounts** which is json containting the severity counts for example: 

```{ CRITICAL: 2, HIGH: 5, MEDIUM: 10, LOW: 17 }```

### Example ###

Get access token from [GitHub OIDC](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/configuring-openid-connect-in-amazon-web-services), build and push image, check results of scan.

```yml
jobs:
  test-check-aws-inspector-action:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    name: Test check-aws-inspector
    permissions:
      id-token: write
      contents: read

  steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v4

  - name: Configure AWS Credentials
    uses: aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials@v3
    with:
      role-to-assume: ${{ vars.IAM_ROLE }}
      aws-region: ap-southeast-2

  - name: Login to Amazon ECR
    id: login-ecr
    uses: aws-actions/amazon-ecr-login@v1

  - name: Build, tag, and push image to Amazon ECR
    env:
      ECR_REGISTRY: ${{ steps.login-ecr.outputs.registry }}
      ECR_REPOSITORY: my-ecr-repo
      IMAGE_TAG: ${{ github.event.inputs.tag }}
      run: |
        docker build -t $ECR_REGISTRY/$ECR_REPOSITORY:$IMAGE_TAG .
        docker push $ECR_REGISTRY/$ECR_REPOSITORY:$IMAGE_TAG

  - name: Check results of aws inspect on image
    id: check-aws-inspector
    uses: ecperth/check-aws-inspector@v1.0
    with:
      repository: my-ecr-repo
      tag: ${{ github.event.inputs.tag }}
      fail-on: CRITICAL
      ignore: 	
        CVE-2023-40217
        CVE-2023-36054
      timeout: 60
      consistency-delay: 15

  - name: Print the findings regardless of fail
    if: always()
    run: echo "${{ steps.check-aws-inspector.outputs.findingSeverityCounts }}" 
```
### Permissions ###
Required permission to check scan findings of ecr image with amazon inspector:

```terraform
data "aws_iam_policy_document" "example" {
  statement {
    sid       = "AllowEcrRepoAccess"
    effect    = "Allow"
    actions   = ["ecr:DescribeImageScanFindings"]
    resources = [{repo-arn}]
  }
  statement {
    sid       = "AllowAwsInspectAccess"
    effect    = "Allow"
    actions   = ["inspector2:ListCoverage", "inspector2:ListFindings"]
    resources = ["*"]
  }
}
```


### consistency-delay ###
In my testing i noticed that after a COMPLETE scan status is returned from the ecr api, the findings will take a while to all roll in. I added code in my action to re-poll the ecr api for findings once the status is COMPLERE untill it gets the same result set twice. The consistency-delay input is the time between these re-polls. 15 seconds consistently produced a full set of results for me but i was testing on a image with a lot of vulnerabilities.

```
Polling for complete scan...
Scan status is "Pending"
Polling for complete scan...
scan complete!
{ HIGH: 1, MEDIUM: 1 }
Polling for consitency...
{ HIGH: 73, MEDIUM: 144, LOW: 19, CRITICAL: 14 }
Polling for consitency...
{ HIGH: 97, MEDIUM: 199, LOW: 28, CRITICAL: 16 }
Polling for consitency...
{ HIGH: 97, MEDIUM: 199, LOW: 28, CRITICAL: 16 }
Consistent Results!
```

Commit message:

Add support for reading from ecr registry other than from the aws account of the authed role

README.md, after:


<p align="center">
  <img src="badges/coverage.svg">
</p>

# Check AWS Inspector V1.1 #

This action can be used to check the findings of an [amazon inspector](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/inspector/latest/user/what-is-inspector.html) scan. It has only been tested with inspector v2. Currently the action also only supports checking the results of scans on images pushed to ecr. May be modified for lambdas and ec2 instances in the future.

### Usage ###
```yml
- uses: ecperth/check-aws-inspector@v1.1
    with:
      # ecr repository name
      repository: 
      # ecr registry id (Optional)(
      # aws account id which containts the ecr registry. Only required if
      # different from primary aws account id of authed role
      registry-id:
      # image tag
      tag: 
      # vulnerability severity to cause action to fail (Optional)
      # if provided the action will fail if a vulnerability of that severity or higher is 
      # found. [ CRITICAL | HIGH | MEDIUM | LOW | INFORMATIONAL| UNDEFINED ]
      fail-on: 
      # vulnerabilityIds to ignore (Optional)
      # seperated by spaces, commas or newlines
      ignore:
      # time (seconds) to get complete status from ecr before action fails
      timeout: 
      # time (seconds) between polls for consistency
      # i suggest reading the explanation below and experimenting for yourself
      # as aws inspector behaviour may change making this unnecessary
      consistency-delay: 
```
### Output ###
There is just one output **findingSeverityCounts** which is json containting the severity counts for example: 

```{ CRITICAL: 2, HIGH: 5, MEDIUM: 10, LOW: 17 }```

### Example ###

Get access token from [GitHub OIDC](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/security-hardening-your-deployments/configuring-openid-connect-in-amazon-web-services), build and push image, check results of scan.

```yml
jobs:
  test-check-aws-inspector-action:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    name: Test check-aws-inspector
    permissions:
      id-token: write
      contents: read

  steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v4

  - name: Configure AWS Credentials
    uses: aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials@v3
    with:
      role-to-assume: {IAM_ROLE}
      aws-region: ap-southeast-2

  - name: Login to Amazon ECR
    id: login-ecr
    uses: aws-actions/amazon-ecr-login@v1

  - name: Build, tag, and push image to Amazon ECR
    env:
      ECR_REGISTRY: ${{ steps.login-ecr.outputs.registry }}
      ECR_REPOSITORY: my-ecr-repo
      IMAGE_TAG: ${{ github.event.inputs.tag }}
      run: |
        docker build -t $ECR_REGISTRY/$ECR_REPOSITORY:$IMAGE_TAG .
        docker push $ECR_REGISTRY/$ECR_REPOSITORY:$IMAGE_TAG

  - name: Check results of aws inspect on image
    id: check-aws-inspector
    uses: ecperth/check-aws-inspector@v1.0
    with:
      repository: my-ecr-repo
      registry-id: my-ecr-repo
      tag: ${{ github.event.inputs.tag }}
      fail-on: CRITICAL
      ignore: 	
        CVE-2023-40217
        CVE-2023-36054
      timeout: 60
      consistency-delay: 15

  - name: Print the findings regardless of fail
    if: always()
    run: echo "${{ steps.check-aws-inspector.outputs.findingSeverityCounts }}" 
```
### Permissions ###
Required permission to check scan findings of ecr image with amazon inspector:

```terraform
data "aws_iam_policy_document" "example" {
  statement {
    sid       = "AllowEcrRepoAccess"
    effect    = "Allow"
    actions   = ["ecr:DescribeImageScanFindings"]
    resources = [{repo-arn}]
  }
  statement {
    sid       = "AllowAwsInspectAccess"
    effect    = "Allow"
    actions   = ["inspector2:ListCoverage", "inspector2:ListFindings"]
    resources = ["*"]
  }
}
```


### consistency-delay ###
In my testing i noticed that after a COMPLETE scan status is returned from the ecr api, the findings will take a while to all roll in. I added code in my action to re-poll the ecr api for findings once the status is COMPLETE untill it gets the same result set twice. The consistency-delay input is the time between these re-polls. 15 seconds consistently produced a full set of results for me but i was testing on a image with a lot of vulnerabilities.

```
Polling for complete scan...
Scan status is "Pending"
Polling for complete scan...
scan complete!
{ HIGH: 1, MEDIUM: 1 }
Polling for consitency...
{ HIGH: 73, MEDIUM: 144, LOW: 19, CRITICAL: 14 }
Polling for consitency...
{ HIGH: 97, MEDIUM: 199, LOW: 28, CRITICAL: 16 }
Polling for consitency...
{ HIGH: 97, MEDIUM: 199, LOW: 28, CRITICAL: 16 }
Consistent Results!
```
